### Jamie Lee_Conflict Resolution Reflection

For me, as I've taken a year off and have had some spaced out clinical experiences, I do not have much to speak on conflicts I've observed *during* my clinicals. However, I can speak of conflicts I've either seen or been directly involved in in a clinical setting. 

A conflict that I have yet to see get resolved was the clash between staff and upper management in a unit I've worked at, specifically regarding favorites. Although it is difficult to say with certainty, as there is only situational evidence, there have been several instances of (possible) favoritism affecting staff holidays, overtime, and scheduling. Some staff would get all of their holiday and time-off requests accepted, while others had to take shifts that were ones they didn't want. There were also times when shift requests were first-come-first-serve, but certain staff members, even when shifts were taken, were able to get those shifts because managment would take the original requester's name off. This created a conflict between the staff and nursing management. 

This does not necessarily pertain to an issue or trend that we've learned in class, but does demonstrate the need for mediation and third-party involvement in order to clearly conduct communication and implement changes. A question that remains unanswered for me, aside from resolution of this particular conflict, is what the process is between staff, nursing managment and HR in order to come to a resolution. The only experience I have with HR is with the hiring process, and I do not know the role they play in audits, performance feedback and conflict resolution. 

A problem I've personally had that I can now recognize as a result of learning more about conflict management is the importance of defining the problem. It was only in hindsight that I was able to recognize what the crux of the issue was, but many of the staff nurses would have knwon it much earlier, as they have more experience with conflict management in the floor nursing setting. By recognizing the issue, I will be able to properly structure and define my own opinions on the issue and develop a solution, either on my own or with other staff. 