## Prompt
This discussion has two components: 
### A
Each team member should first individually describe a situation where you personally felt or observed the influence of power dynamics in a team or group. Your description should include details of the situation, personal thoughts and reactions to the situation, and how you felt the influence of power dynamics impacted the team or group. Each team member should individually post a description from their own experience. 
### B
Next, each student on your team should respond to at least one other student's post. In your response, you should offer potential strategies to address one or more of the issues raised in the situation. You should use at least one strategy from Greer’s work and explain why you think your strategy would be an appropriate approach.
## Response
During my clinicals my freshman year, I was in a clinical group of which majority were friends and very close to each other. Those students were also quite close with the clinical instructor, whereas a couple of the group members were not [close with the group nor the instructor]. It became an environment in which, although it was never quite acknowledged out loud, the students that were close to each other and with the instructor were on a so-called "higher pedestal" than the rest of the clinical group. 
So in group projects, the students closer to the professor would choose topics that they wanted to do, gain approval, and the rest of the students would later follow through with the decisions made. Because that group was also close with the professor, it created an environment in which it was difficult to bring up any opposing opinions, as pushback was feared and felt like more work than it was worth. 
I also felt the unspoken pressure to just go along with every decision that was made, because it didn't feel like there was a place for me to bring up my own thoughts. I was also personally not very used to the idea of being close to a professor (or someone in a "higher position"), so I didn't really know what to do at the time. The other group members that weren't close with the professor or in the main "in-group" 