You will create clinical objectives to help guide your learning this semester. Objectives will be set by you in collaboration with your faculty supervisor, who will help you refine your rough draft.

Your objectives should be SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-bound) statements about what you would like to accomplish/gain during the practicum experience. They should allow you to learn and grow and can come from the following categories:

1. Knowledge/learning (what concepts would you like to better understand?)
2. Character development (what strengths would you like to leverage or weaknesses would you like to strengthen?)
3. Skill development (what specific skills would you like to learn during the practicum experience?)

You may find using verbs from Bloom's Taxonomy helpful while writing your goals. Bloom's taxonomy (see image below) is a model that classifies learning objectives into levels of complexity and specificity. Remember - you're a fourth year nursing student with three years of experience preparing to enter a profession, so I recommend using verbs that are higher in complexity (understanding/comprehension -> evaluation). You can find some examples of objectives and verbs for each domain to [assist in writing your objectives here.](https://www.evms.edu/education/medical_programs/doctor_of_medicine/instructor_tools/learning/developing_objectives/blooms_taxonomy/#:~:text=The%20New%20Bloom's%20Taxonomy%20is,analysis%2C%20evaluation%2C%20and%20creation.) 

[Links to an external site.](https://www.evms.edu/education/medical_programs/doctor_of_medicine/instructor_tools/learning/developing_objectives/blooms_taxonomy/#:~:text=The%20New%20Bloom's%20Taxonomy%20is,analysis%2C%20evaluation%2C%20and%20creation.)

Recommendations from the Ohio Board of Nursing re: writing behavioral objectives [can be found here.](https://canvas.case.edu/courses/40484/files/7154878?wrap=1 "Individual Clinical Behavioral Objectives OBN Recommendations.pdf")

1. Specific to my nursing student journey: I took a year off, and it's also been some time since I've worked as a nurses' aide (due to various reasons). I wish to reacclimate myself to the nursing process and regain my confidence not only as a nursing student, but also as an upcoming nurse. Would like to regain the confidence by the middle of the semester. 
2. I've had several issues with my health (both mental and physical), so this semester I would like to solidify good management strategies. I would like to discuss with my preceptor and her coworkers regarding their strategies. I am hoping to begin development midway through the semester and test my strategies through the end of the semester. 
3. I would like to review and internalize the values for electrolytes and therapeutic windows for common medications. I've lost a lot of this knowledge and would like to take this semester to relearn and review medsurg fundamentals. 
## Redo
1. Within the first 4 weeks of practicum, I will develop a time management strategy to get morning assessments done and documented on 2 patients within the first 2 hours with minimal guidance from my preceptor. 
2. By the middle of my clinical experience, I will be able to verbalize and teach back 2 commonly seen diagnoses (chronic disease processes) and explain the pathophysiology, commonly seen symptoms and alterations and briefly go over interventions. 
3. By the end of my clinical experience, I will be able to verbalize and teach back 3 medications commonly given on my unit (digestive health), including (but not limited to) reason for use, administration routes, therapeutic windows, and mechanism of actions. 
4. By the end of my clinical experience, I will have developed thorough care plans for 2 patients using resources available to me such as Lippincott, Elsevier and my textbook. These care plans will include my own physical assessments and findings, their diagnoses and lab results and medications. 
5. Within the first 4 weeks of my practicum experience I will develop a tool to improve time management skills so I can accurately assess and document per hospital policy on 1-2 patients in a timely manner (1-2 hours of start of shift) with minimal assistance needed from my preceptor. Confidence is too hard to measure you need to be specific what will you be able to do that would indicate this is happening ...... 2. By the end of my practicum experience I will be able to prioritize patient care and develop an appropriate plan of care for 2-3 patients based on their assessment findings, labs, diagnostics and medications with minimal assistance needed from my assigned preceptor. 3. By the end of my practicum experience I will be able to verbalize and discuss 3-4 commonly used medications based on the patient population of the floor including the mechanism of action, intended therapeutic use and response, common side effects and adverse drug reactions with minimal assistance needed from my assigned preceptor. If you have questions let me know, otherwise revise and repost here and I will review and update your score before you post to the final objective assignment link. Thank you, Dr. McConnell