Nursing Informatics for Leaders in Clinical Nursing 
1. Nursing leadership plays a critical role in the development of nursing informatics solutions. Data that nursing informatics yields may help illuminate ways to increase productivity, efficiency, performance, effectiveness, cost, and the value of nursing care. Nursing leaders can identify more efficient and effective ways to gather and subsequently utilize this information. 
    
2. This article describes two successful applications of nursing informatics solutions with clearly defined structure and leadership from nursing executives. The framework for both projects was based on: clear lines of responsibility and authority, respect for each type of expertise necessary to the project, and clear commitment to the aim of the project. 
    
3. The framework developed the Evidence-Based Clinical Documentation (EBCD) and Nursing Data Portal (NDP) solutions. The overall vision for the clinically focused EBCD system was to create a patient-centric record that guides and informs the provision of safe, effective, and efficient care by the interdisciplinary team and produces data to valuate care of individual and population care. The leadership-focused NDP system sought to establish a single platform for sharing nursing performance data. 
    
4. These two nursing informatics solutions have different focuses but were developed from the same systems-level framework. This system-level method demonstrates the role of specific leadership in guiding the ideation, design, development, data mapping and visualization, and application of the products. The developed framework gives executive nursing leadership a systems-level method on which to base future projects.

BP1: study/paper aim BP2: main point #1 BP3: main point #2 BP4: conclusion

1. Nursing informatics has made its way as a crucial component of nursing care over the last decade. Nursing informatics can be defined as the application of information technology in nursing responsibilities encompassing management, practice and education. It combines and integrates computer science, nursing science and information to supplement nursing care. 
2. The usage of nursing informatics is directly correlated with improved patient outcomes. Electronic health record tools (EHRs) 
3. An important aspect of delivering quality patient care is in medication administration. EHRs play a crucial role in creating a more reliable healthcare system by detecting and preventing errors. Quantitative research involving a comprehensive analysis of medication administration and ingestion history was conducted, of which the findings indicate that medication errors occured due to a number of reasons: illegibility of nurse's handwritings, lack of time and documentation errors. EHRs reduce the likelihood of these errors by eliminating these factors. 